# Plotting a Sample Portrait #

----------

Refer to this page to learn about how to use the Sample Portrait function. Included below is the function and a list of valid parameter values. There is also an example of the Sample Portrait.


@[toc](Sections)

## samplePortrait Function ##
Outputs a file with the different substitution, indel, and dinucleotide graphs.

    samplePortrait(matrix, output_path, project, percentage=False)

For those using the R-wrapper, you must switch any "True" to "TRUE", "False" to "FALSE", and "None" to "NULL."

- **matrix_path** -> (String) The path to your matrix (generated by SigProfilerMatrixGenerator).<br>
- **output_path** -> (String) The path to where the output will be saved.<br>
- **project** -> (String) The output file will have this value postfixed in the name.<br>
- **percentage** -> (Boolean) True for a normalized percentile plot and False for a numerical plot. This parameter has a default value of False.<br>

To create a sample portrait, ensure that you have a matrix for all required contexts (SBS-6, SBS-24, SBS-96, SBS-384, SBS-1536, DBS-78, DBS-312, ID-83, ID-28, ID-96).

## plotDBS Examples ##
The following examples were generated in a python environment where sample_portrait was imported as sP from sigProfilerPlotting.

    $python3
    >>from sigProfilerPlotting import sample_portrait as sP

From within a R session:

    $ R
    >> library("reticulate")
    >> use_python("path_to_your_python3")
    >> py_config()
    >> library("SigProfilerPlottingR")
    

### The Sample Portrait ###
From within a Python session:

    sP.samplePortrait(sample_matrices_path, output_path, project, percentage=False)
    
From within a R session:
    
    samplePortrait(sample_matrices_path, output_path, project, percentage=FALSE)
    
@[osf](2he54)

This collection of graphs includes the variations that are produced by each function. To produce an individual graph found in the collection, navigate to [Plotting Susbtitutions][1], [Plotting Indels][2], or [Plotting Dinucleotides][3], and call the corresponding function.


  [1]: https://osf.io/2aj6t/wiki/3.%20Plotting%20Substitutions/
  [2]: https://osf.io/2aj6t/wiki/4.%20Plotting%20Indels/
  [3]: https://osf.io/2aj6t/wiki/5.%20Plotting%20Dinucleotides/
